# Camelot: The Resistance

## Rules Overview
Camelot's rules are based on the rules for the social deduction game: "The Resistance", and is based on the expansion and reimagining of the original game: "Avalon." 

Roles are often more complex in this game, though, and we also introduce a scoring mechanic. In order to play, players will need to adapt to the new rules and reference them in the app throughout the course of play.

This can be made more simple with the use of the Camelot App, available on Android.

## Round Overview

Take each of the following steps, one at a time, during each round.

1) **Change the Leader:** The current Leader passes thr Leader Token to the next player on their right (or the player named in the Game Start file, if this is the first round).
2) **Pass the Scabbard:** The Scabbard is passed to another player of the wielder's choice (or by the choice of the Leader, if this is the first round). It may not be passed to the Leader or to the previous player to hold it.
3) **Quest Proposal:** The Leader proposes several players to go on the quest, up to the number written on the next quest on the board. Leaders can choose themselves for a quest.
4) **Vote:** The group votes for or against the quest. The vote is a simple majority rules. Ties default to against. If it comes out against, repeat steps 1 and 3. (If this occurs three times in a row, the Evil players immediately gain 3 Victory Points.)
5) **Bestow the Grail:** The Leader selects one of players going on the quest to carry the Grail and the grail is transfered to that player. The player is beholden to the Grail's powers for that Quest.
6) **The Quest:** The chosen players all provide their cards to the Leader and the cards are shuffled and then revealed.
7) **Results:** The cards are revealed and the results of the quest are determined. All results are applied according to the cards.
8) **Onwards:** Discuss the result of the quest and then start a new round from Step 1.

## Endgame Overview

1) **Assassination:** Evil players reveal themselves. The Assassin can then choose a target to assassinate. Both the Assassin and chosen target reveal their roles, and both are removed from the rest of the game - namely, the Wild Hunt section.
2) **Wild Hunt:** The remaining players (not counting the assassin and the target) all discuss who they believe are Fae. Each remaining player then stands and points at two other players. All players count to three and then all Fae players lower their hands, revealing how many players correctly identified the Fae in the game.
3) **Victory Points:** Victory Points are added up individually and compared across the group, determining the winner(s) of the game, as well as the player rankings!


## The App
In order to play, each player needs to download the mobile app and input the group code, provided on the host's game screen. Once all players have joined and the game mode has been selected, the app will automatically assign a role to each player and provide character-specific information including each player's role, allegiance, and origin. Known information about other players is also provided on this screen, as well as any necessary misinformation generated by your role or another player's role. This information should be kept private, but can be reviewed at any point during the game by returning to the Role Info tab. You can, however, say whatever you like. After this information has been read and clarified, the game begins with the designated leader selecting the player who holds the scabbard and then choosing players for the first quest.

Some abilities can be handled directly through this app, allowing a player to select a target and reveal information as needed. The ability "Exile", for example, is handled in this way. In these cases, if the ability involves players leaving the room, they should still leave the room, even if the app itself verifies the action. It is not necessary for players to show one another their devices, as sharing information will happen automatically through the app. Additional information, when applied mid-game, will be displayed as a notification for each relevant player. "Known" information can be reviewed at any time, even if forgotten by an individual player.

At the end of the game, the app can also handle the Assassination and Wild Hunt simultaneously (rather than one at a time). All players click the Wild Hunt button and may make their selections for who they believe to be fae. The Assassin will automatically be prompted to select a target, which will be removed from the game and award points accordingly. The assassin should still be allowed to talk to other players before making a decision, however. Once the selections are made, the app will determine final points for each player. Those totals are then passed into a ranking for the game, which is displayed for all players in a descending list.

You may restart the game by exiting the current game and clicking on the "New Game" button. Once you see the code for the new game, distribute it to each player. You may also choose to save a copy of the game's details and emailing them to yourself. High scores are saved for each character and preserved in a Hall of Fame for each character role, which can be accessed from the Main Menu. You can also record your own personal high score!

(When completed, the app will be available here on Github and various app stores, as well.)

## Role Information
At the start of the game, run the program by inputting the names of each player - the order does not matter - with a space between each name. If using the app, each player can input their own name when signing into the game. The game will randomly determine alignment, roles, and players to assign them to. Open the "Game" folder. Each player should privately open the file with his or her name on it and read it. It's best to encourage players to take a picture of the document with their phone so they can access that information later, as needed.

### Points
Victory Points are a new mechanic in this game, which each player accumulates individually, rather than working entirely as a team. This is a significant difference from similar games, such as Avalon. Players gain points from their role (character), their faction (Arthur/Good or Mordred/Evil), and their origin (Mortal or Fae). Players may also lose points if they fail to perform certain actions, or another player takes certain actions (such as assassinating them). Manipulating other players into losing Victory Points while you gain as many as possible is a higher level strategy that comes with playing several games.

Some characters have an innate advantage in this respect, with more opportunities to gain points. Of course they also have more opportunities to lose points, which is more of a disadvantage.

### Factions
There are two main factions in the game: the Forces of Arthur (Good) and the Minions of Mordred (Evil). Only one faction can win the Quests portion of the game, which is the main conflict of the game and provides the most points.

#### Arthur's Court (Good)
Arthur's Court will be referred to as the "Good" side of the game. All members of the Good faction earn 3 Victory Points if, at the end of the game, at least three quests succeed.

**(Maybe a victory point for each quest won? Or more?)**

Arthur's Court will have less information than the Minions of Mordred, but will have more players on their side. Members of the Court must attempt to succeed at as many quests as possible in order to gain victory points.


#### Minions of Mordred (Evil)
The Minions of Mordred will be referred to as the Evil side throughout the game. All members of the Evil faction earn 3 Victory Points if, at the end of the game, at least three quests have failed.

Minions of Mordred are comparatively few in number, but do have a key advantage: they know who is on their side, and sometimes much more information. Mordred's followers will need to move secretly and manipulate Arthur's superior numbers if they hope to prevent three quests from succeeding, thus improving their scores.

#### Neutral Players
In several game modes, there is a chance of a Neutral player appearing. Each neutral player has differing goals, but what they all have in common is that they have a different relationship with Good and Evil in the game:

##### Sir Kay
Sir Kay is, in fact, not truly neutral - being assigned to one faction at the start of the game - but his player is not made aware of which faction that is. This player is only told one person who is his ally and must intuit that ally's motivations in order to help the correct side.

##### Sir Pelinor and The Questing Beast
This pair are truly neutral, in that they do not care if quests succeed or fail. They have no stakes in the battle between good and evil, but are constantly playing their own game. They will always appear together in a game and their entire goal is to go on the final Quest and prevent the other from attending, as well.



### Origin
There are two possible origins for all players: Mortal and Fae. Fae are the guardians of the mystical world beyond mortal ken, and they are charged with stealing away holy artifacts for nature while remaining secret. By the end of the game, either the Holy Grail will be corrupted or not. The Fae hope to corrupt and reclaim its holy power, while the mortals must either protect the Grail or capture the Fae. Specifics are listed below.

#### Children of Men (Mortal)
Tenacious and clever, mortals nevertheless suffer from a general lack of natural greatness and magic and so must make use of relics they find, such as the Holy Grail. Mortals may be found both among the Good and Evil forces, yet they still must work together to determine where Fae have infiltrated their ranks. During the game, Mortals should be on the lookout for Regrowth (Success) and Rot (Failure) cards, which indicate the presence of Fae.

If the Holy Grail has not been corrupted yet, you can prevent this corruption by not sending Fae on Quests. If the Grail has already been corrupted, watch your fellow players to determine if they are Fae so you can identify one during the Wild Hunt. If you do, you can undo most of the damage they did.


#### The Fairy Court (Fae)
Fae are a magical and jealous group, keeping the world's wonders for themselves. You must attempt to go on enough Quests so that you can play your Regrowth (Success) or Rot (Failure) cards, thus corrupting the Holy Grail. Once the Grail has been corrupted, you will be awarded extra Victory Points, whether or not you participated.

Be aware, if you are identified as Fae during the Wild Hunt (whether or not the Grail has been corrupted), you will lose a significant number of Victory Points, so it is important to keep your role a secret, even after the Grail is corrupted.


### Relics
Relics are powerful items that the players have access to throughout the game. They are The Holy Grail and Excalibur. Both of them represent a powerful tool in the hands of Arthur and his Court, but also may be used or misused by his enemies to steal victory from him and the forces of Good!

#### The Holy Grail
When a player is made the leader, they also gain access to the Holy Grail and can choose to assign the Grail to a single player when people are assigned to a Quest. Many roles have specific interactions with the Grail, but generally it prevents the chosen player from using Failure cards (or Rot cards, in the case of the Fae).

Beware when using it, however, because Queen Mab is unaffected by the Holy Grail and Sir Bertilak (normally on the side of Good) *must* play Rot while holding it.






##### Reworking the Fae and the Holy Grail

The two axes alignment system isn't working properly. Rot and Growth add too many cards to the system and the good and evil aspect takes up far too much headspace for people to worry about the Fae. Add to that, there's not too much they can do to stop them.

So how to fix it?

* What if we generate tricks they can play on specific players if they correctly guess their roles, via the app?
* What if they can play "Tricks" that cause two failures if there is one failure?
* Maybe Fae must ensure that certain players go on the quest (or don't go), and that grants them points. But how to make that a team thing without it being overpowered?
* Maybe they just always want to get to the fifth quest? Like two successes and two failures. But then they are also on good or evil?
* What if there's a way to make people act oddly on a quest or become ineligible for a quest?
* What if they have to steal something? But how could you track that in the app? Camera? Gyroscope? Screen unlocked?
* Give all roles a fae-related ability?
* The problem is you're either good or evil. You know something or you don't. How to find a middle ground? How to create secondary objectives that don't ruin the main game?
* Maybe a cross between the vote and the Holy Grail. Leader chooses people on Quest, then everyone votes who gets the Grail. Votes are done via the app, but are public knowledge. Voting history is maintained.





#### Excalibur

Excalibur is a major source of power in the game and a source of conflict between good and evil as they battle over it. Excalibur can be in one of three locations: Camelot, The Lake, and The Stone. At the start of the game, place all three Excalibur Location cards in a stack with the starting location on top (as indicated by the Game Start file). Regardless of its starting or later locations, Excalibur may only be claimed in ONE of these locations, determined randomly before the game starts, and only by King Arthur (on the side of Good) or Sir Accolon (on the side of Evil).

Arthur and Accolon can appear independantly of each other, together, or not at all, but if they obtain Excalibur, their team will be at a significant advantage. Be certain to trust those you allow to obtain the sword.

##### The Scabbard
The Scabbard is part of the Excalibur relic, and starts in the players' hands at the start of the game. At the start of the game, the Leader assigns the Scabbard to one player prior to assigning the first Quest. Each round thereafter, the Scabbard is passed by the person who holds it to any player (except themselves or the player who held it last).

At any point during the round, the player who holds the Scabbard may change the location of the Excalibur search.

## Roles by Player Count
Depending on the number of players, the pool of possible roles will change automatically. This is meant to ensure that both sides are balanced and that no roles are unfairly weak or strong. The pool of roles is adjusted automatically by the program. (Future features may include manual changes to available roles.)

The guide below can help groups know which roles may appear so they can prepare for their abilities in any given game.

### Five Players
*Good:* Merlin, Sir Pervival, King Arthur, Sir Dagonet

*Evil:* Sir Mordred, Lady Morgana, Sir Accolon, Lady Annowre

*Neutral:* Sir Kay


### Six Players
*Good:* Merlin, Sir Pervival, King Arthur, Sir Dagonet, Lady Iseult, Sir Tristan, Queen Guinevere

*Evil:* Sir Mordred, Lady Morgana, Sir Accolon, Lady Annowre, Sir Palamedes, Sir Maleagant

*Neutral:* Sir Kay


### Seven Players
*Good:* Merlin, Sir Pervival, King Arthur, Sir Dagonet, Lady Iseult, Sir Tristan, Queen Guinevere, King Uther, Sir Bedivere, Sir Galahad, Sir Ector

*Evil:* Sir Mordred, Lady Morgana, Sir Accolon, Lady Annowre, Sir Palamedes, Sir Maleagant, King Vortigurn, Sir Lancelot, Sir Agravaine

*Neutral:* Sir Kay


### Eight or Nine Players
*Good:* Merlin, Sir Pervival, King Arthur, Sir Dagonet, Lady Iseult, Sir Tristan, Queen Guinevere, King Uther, Sir Bedivere, Sir Galahad, Sir Ector, Lady Nimue (The Lady of the Lake), Sir Bertilak (The Green Knight), Sir Gawain, Sir Bors, Queen Titania of the Seelie Fairies

*Evil:* Sir Mordred, Lady Morgana, Sir Accolon, Lady Annowre, Sir Palamedes, Sir Maleagant, King Vortigurn, Sir Lancelot, Sir Agravaine, Queen Mab of the Unseelie Fairies, King Oberon of the Fairy Court

*Neutral:* Sir Kay


### Ten or More Players
*Good:* Merlin, Sir Pervival, King Arthur, Sir Dagonet, Lady Iseult, Sir Tristan, Queen Guinevere, King Uther, Sir Bedivere, Sir Galahad, Sir Ector, Lady Nimue (The Lady of the Lake), Sir Bertilak (The Green Knight), Sir Gawain, Sir Bors, Queen Titania of the Seelie Fairies, Sir Lamorak

*Evil:* Sir Mordred, Lady Morgana, Sir Accolon, Lady Annowre, Sir Palamedes, Sir Maleagant, King Vortigurn, Sir Lancelot, Sir Agravaine, Queen Mab of the Unseelie Fairies, King Oberon of the Fairy Court, Sir Colgrevance

*Neutral:* Sir Kay, Sir Pelinor, The Questing Beast


## Variant Setups
Choosing one of these options will allow aspects of the chosen gameplay to be front and center.

### The Wild Hunt
This variant guarantees equal mortals and Fae. Includes mortals with anti-Fae powers.

### Quest for Excalibur
Game will focus on Excalibur abilities. Arthur, Dagonet, Annowre, and Accolon, in particular.

### Powers and Reversals
Each of the major powers and reversal access are common here.

### Deadly Nemeses
Pelinor and the Questing Beast are in these games, as well as Tristan and Palmedes.

### Secret Knowledge
Merlin, Gwenovere, Ector, Mordred, Morgana, and Percival are key players here.


## Roles Appendix
The following is a list of each role and the associated knowledge, disadvantages, and abilities that come with it.


### King Arthur
**Cards:** Success

You know each player that is seeking Excalibur in the right place. That is, each player that gains some benefit from Excalibur being in the location Excalibur is actually hidden.

##### Obtain Excalibur
*Must have declared as a Sword Seeker, King Arthur, or Sir Accolon (your choice).*

After you declare, each time you are given the Scabbard, you may search the current location for Excalibur instead of changing the location. If it is in that location, you gain Excalibur and can use the Expend Excalibur ability.

##### Expend Excalibur
*Once per game. Must have found Excalibur.*

When you attend a quest, once all of the quest cards are returned but before they are read, you may force the quest to succeed even when it would otherwise fail.

#### Advice
Watch the players you know of closely when they move the search location for Excalibur, or arrange for them to get the Scabbard. The location they favor is likely to be where you can actually find it.

### Sir Bedivere
**Cards:** Success, *Failure*

You gain the Suspend power, but only after you gain the Scabbard and choose not to move the Excalibur Search. Otherwise, you do not gain this power.

##### Suspend
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is in the Lake.*

After the quest cards have been collected for a quest, but before they are read, you can declare as a Guardian of Truth, Sir Bedivere, or Sir Agravaine (your choice). If you do, you may look at the quest cards before the leader and remove one of them. If you remove a Failure card, the next time you attend a quest, you MUST play a Failure card unless the Holy Grail is played on you.

**Note: How to play this as an evil character?**


### Sir Bertilak, The Green Knight
**Cards:** Regrowth, *Rot, Any Card*

You are a member of the Fairy Court and benefit from corrupting the Holy Grail. If you have the Holy Grail played on you, you must play Rot on that quest.

After the Holy Grail has been corrupted, you may play ANY card on quests.

### Sir Bors
**Cards:** Success, Cleanse

You are able to play Cleanse cards (see Card Types below).

### Sir Dagonet
**Cards:** Success

You cannot speak the actual words of a language you know, but can communicate through gibberish sounds and body language. Speaking actual words may result in a lower score. \nYou know King Arthur.\nYou appear Evil to Merlin and to all Evil players. Only Sir Ector may know if Sir Dagonet is in this game.

### Sir Ector
**Cards:** Success

**Assassination Target**

You know which Good roles are in the game, but not who has any given role. Your player info page will include a list of all assigned roles.

### Sir Galahad
**Cards:** Success

You gain the Reveal power, but only after you attend either the First or Fourth Quest. If you do not attend one of these quests, you do not gain this power.

##### Reveal
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is at Camelot.*

You may declare as a Knight of Camelot, Sir Galahad, or Sir Lancelot (your choice). When you do, you instruct all players to close their eyes and hold their fists out in front of them. Name one Good role (for example, King Arthur, Sir Gawain, etc.). If a player has that role, they must raise their thumb to indicate they are playing that role. You can then instruct all players to put their hands down, open their eyes, and resume play normally.

### Sir Gawain
**Cards:** Success, *Reversal* (See Below)

**Assassination Target**

You know all members of the Fairy Court, both Good and Evil. However, your presence has caused the Grail to start closer to corruption.

If there are no Fae players in the game (indicated by you not having any secret information), you may also play Reversal cards.

### Queen Guinevere
**Cards:** Success

**Assassination Target**

You know two "rumors" about other players. Rumors are structured in this format: "Player A knows something about Player B." In short, they tell you who knows something about another player, but do not explain how that person knows it. You must use your wits to determine how the pieces fit together.

### Lady Iseult
**Cards:** Success

**Assassination Target**

You and Sir Tristan each know who the other is and also know one location that Excalibur **cannot** be found.

### Sir Lamorak
**Cards:** Success

**Assassination Target**

You can see two pairs of players. One pair of players are on opposite sides (either Good and Evil or Sir Pelinor and the Questing Beast), and the other pair are on the same side (either Evil and Evil or Good and Good).

### Merlin
**Cards:** Success, *Reversal*

**Assassination Target**

You know which people have Evil roles, but not who has any specific role.

You may play Reversal cards while the Excalibur Search is in the Lake (unless the Holy Grail is played on you).

### Lady Nimue, The Lady of the Lake
**Cards:** Regrowth, *Success, Any Card*

You are a member of the Fairy Court and benefit from corrupting the Holy Grail. If the Holy Grail is played on you, you must play a Success card on that quest.

After the Holy Grail has been corrupted, you may play ANY card on quests.

### Sir Percival
**Cards:** Success, *Reversal*

You know which people have the Merlin and Lady Morgana roles, but not who has each. If you don't see anyone (your secret information is empty), neither Merlin nor Lady Morgana are in the game.

You may play Reversal cards while the Excalibur Search is at Camelot (unless the Holy Grail is played on you - and then you must play a Success card).

### Queen Titania of the Seelie Fairies
**Cards:** Regrowth, *Any Card*

You are a member of the Fairy Court and benefit from corrupting the Holy Grail.

You appear as Evil to all players with Evil roles (except Sir Colgrevance).

After the Holy Grail has been corrupted, you may play ANY card on quests.

### Sir Tristan
**Cards:** Success

**Assassination Target**

The person you see is also Good and is aware that you are Good. This player's role is Lady Iseult.

You can be assassinated as either a Lover (which includes either Sir Tristan or Lady Iseult) or as Sir Tristan specifically.

You and Lady Iseult each know one location that Excalibur cannot be found.

### King Uther
**Cards:** Success

You gain the Exile power, but only after you vote against your own quest proposal OR a quest proposal where you have been chosen to attend.

##### Exile
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is in the Stone.*

After a new leader is selected (but before the vote occurs), you may declare as a King of the Realm, King Uther, or King Vortigurn (your choice). If you do, you may select one player to be exiled from the game until the next quest is completed. That player is required to view your role information, and will see which role you possess via the app. The exiled player must leave the play area and access your character file. When the exile is over, you must be the one to go retrieve that player, affording you a moment of privacy with that player, if you wish.


### Evil Roles

### Sir Accolon
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You know King Arthur. You gain the Obtain Excalibur ability after you have obtained the Scabbard twice (by any means).

##### Obtain Excalibur
*Once per game.*

When you obtain the Scabbard, you may search the current location for Excalibur instead of changing the location. If it is in that location, you gain Excalibur and can use the Expend Excalibur ability.

###### Expend Excalibur
*Once per game. Must have found Excalibur.*

At the end of a quest you attended, once all of the quest cards are returned but before they are read, you may force the quest to fail even when it would otherwise succeed.

### Sir Agravaine 
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You start with the Suspend ability.

##### Suspend
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is in the Lake.*

After the quest cards have been collected for a quest, but before they are read, you can declare as a Guardian of Truth, Sir Bedivere, or Sir Agravaine (your choice). If you do, you may look at the quest cards before the leader and remove one of them. If you remove a Failure card, the next time you attend a quest, you MUST play a Failure card unless the Holy Grail is played on you.

### Lady Annowre
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You know where Excalibur may be retrieved.

Your goal is to remove that specific location from the deck of Grail Locations without anyone noticing. If you are holding that location at the end of the game, you will gain significant Victory Points.

### Sir Colgrevance
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You know not only who else is Evil, but what role each other Evil player possesses.\nEvil players know that there is a Sir Colgrevance, but do not know that it is you or even that you are Evil.

### Sir Lancelot
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You start the game with the Reveal ability.

Your goal is to ensure that Evil wins, but not through assassination.

##### Reveal
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is in at Camelot.*

You may declare as a Knight of Camelot, Sir Galahad, or Sir Lancelot (your choice). When you do, you instruct all players to close their eyes and hold their fists out in front of them. Name one good role (for example, King Arthur, Sir Gawain, etc.). If a player has that role, they should raise their thumb to indicate they are playing that role. You can then instruct all players to put their hands down, open their eyes, and resume play normally.

### Queen Mab of the Unseelie Fairies
**Cards:** Rot, *Any Card*

You are a member of the Fairy Court and benefit from corrupting the Holy Grail.

You may only play Rot cards on quests unless the Holy Grail is corrupted, even when the Holy Grail is played on you.

After the Holy Grail has been corrupted, you may play ANY card on quests.

### Sir Maleagant
**Cards:** Failure

Each time you are given the Scabbard, you may declare as Sir Maleagant to force the next quest to have one additional knight attend it. This ability cannot be used on the final quest. This ability cannot be used if you use the Leader role to take the Scabbard.

You may only play Failure cards on quests, even when the Holy Grail is played on you.

### Sir Mordred
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You are hidden from all Good roles that could reveal that information.\nLike other Evil characters, you know who else is Evil (except Sir Colgrevance).

### Lady Morgana
**Cards:** Success, Failure, *Reversal*

You appear like Merlin to Sir Percival.

You may play Reversal cards while the Excalibur Search is in the Stone (unless the Holy Grail is played on you).
        
### King Oberon of the Fairy Court
**Cards:** Rot, Regrowth, *Any Card*

You are a member of the Fairy Court and benefit from corrupting the Holy Grail.

You know Sir Gawain and Sir Bertilak, The Green Knight.

After the Holy Grail has been corrupted, you may play ANY card on quests.
        
### Sir Palamedes
**Cards:** Success, *Failure*

You start with the ability to play Failure cards. You also know Lady Iseult and have the Exile ability.

If you choose Sir Tristan, he loses the ability to play Success cards, but remains on Arthur's team. He remains a valid Assassination target, though you lose Victory Points if he is Assassinated. Tristan must reveal his identity when you retrieve him from exile.

After you exile Sir Tristan, you lose the ability to play Failure cards.

##### Exile
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is in the Stone.*

After a new leader is selected (but before the vote occurs), you may declare as a King of the Realm, King Uther, or King Vortigern (your choice). If you do, you may select one player to be exiled from the game until the next quest is completed. That player is required to view your role information, and will see which role you possess. The exiled player must leave the play area and access your character file. When the exile is over, you must be the one to go retrieve that player, affording you a moment of privacy with that player, if you wish.

### King Vortigern
**Cards:** Success, Failure

You start with the Exile ability.

##### Exile
*Once per game, while the Excalibur Search is in the Stone.*

After a new leader is selected (but before the vote occurs), you may declare as a King of the Realm, King Uther, or King Vortigern (your choice). If you do, you may select one player to be exiled from the game until the next quest is completed. That player is required to view your role information, and will see which role you possess. The exiled player must leave the play area and access your character file. When the exile is over, you must be the one to go retrieve that player, affording you a moment of privacy with that player, if you wish.

### Neutral Roles

### Sir Kay
**Cards:** Success, Failure, Rot, Regrowth

You are neutral and equally pulled to the Good and Evil sides, but you do have one ally who is either Good or Evil. You must determine if this ally is Good or Evil and assist as best you can.

Neither Evil players, Good players, nor Merlin will be able to identify you as Good or Evil.

You must play Success cards when the Holy Grail is played on you.

### Sir Pelinor
**Cards:** Success, Reversal

You are Neutral in this battle and have no allies in this game. Your nemesis is The Questing Beast, who is also Neutral. You have the Battle the Beast ability.

Your goal is to attend the final quest. If the Questing Beast is on that quest with you, you must use the Battle the Beast ability. If the Questing Beast is NOT on that final quest, you must NOT use the Battle the Beast ability. Performing these actions in the wrong combination will cost you significant Victory Points.

##### Battle the Beast
*Can only be used on the Fifth Quest.*

After all quest cards have been collected, but before they are read, you may declare as Sir Pelinor. The Questing Beast must reveal itself to all players. Depending on who has attended the quest, you will gain or lose points when you take this action.

### The Questing Beast
**Cards:** The Questing Beast Was Here, *Reversal*

You are Neutral in this battle and have no allies in this game. You are Fae, however, and benefit from the Holy Grail's corruption (though not as much as other Fae). Your nemesis is Sir Pelinor, who is also Neutral.

Your goal is to either prevent Sir Pelinor from attending the final quest or to trick Sir Pelinor into misusing his Battle the Beast ability. You must play at least one The Questing Beast Was Here card or lose significant Victory Points.

You may play one Reversal card per game.
        
        
        
## Card Types

#### Success
Maintains the default state of the mission: Success. This card essentially has no effect, since it will not change the outcome.

#### Failure
Alters the result of a mission to failure. If the mission was already failing, this card has no effect.

#### Regrowth
Works the same as a Success card during a quest. After the quest is over, the Holy Grail moves one step closer to corruption.

#### Rot
Works the same as a Failure card during a quest. After the quest is over, the Holy Grail moves one step closer to corruption.

#### Reverse
This card takes effect after each other card is applied (except other Reversal cards). Each Reversal card reverses the results of the quest. Thus, a failed quest becomes a success, and a successful quest becomes a failure. Two Reversal cards essentially cancel each other out.

This only changes the result of the quest itself and will not affect the corruption of the Holy Grail if Rot or Regrowth are played.

#### Cleanse
If there is a Rot or Regrowth card revealed on this quest, negate all Rot and Regrowth cards. If there are no Rot or Regrowth cards played on this quest, this card counts as a Failure card.

#### The Questing Beast Was Here
Works the same as a Success card.

(This is the primary card played by the Questing Beast and acts as a clue to Sir Pelinor. It, otherwise, has no effect.)



## Notes

* Perhaps combine the grail and the scabbard for simplicity. There's a lot of complexity that needs help.
* Excalibur locations is also confusing. Maybe they could be castles or areas in trouble.
* It's a lot of stuff to keep track of, too. Maybe Quests are just in certain locations?.So, if you go on the Quest you automatically search that location? The locations could be randomly assigned with cards or something and placed beside the board. Alternately, they could be dice so the same location can appear more than once. The locations could all be revealed at the start of the game or one at a time.
